---
title: Mad Fate
author: Kevin van Kessel
tags: philosophy
image: /assets/images/mad-fate/index.svg
text-align: center
unlisted: true
---

<figure style="position:relative;padding-top:56.25%;"><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8n0PUXewaC0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe></figure>

<div markdown=1 style="display: inline-block">

Two things are apparent. I exist. A world exists.

But I can not see myself, no matter how hard I look.

Nor can I discover the world for what it truly is, no matter how hard I map it.

Can either truly be said to be real?

Perhaps the one thing that is real is the relativity between the two.

The nature of my existence is subjective. Impersistent. Irrational. Personal. Driven by desire and emotion, a quest for purpose.

The nature of the world is objective. Persistent. Rational. Shared. Driven by forces unknown, devoid of meaning.

The two are dual.

The infinite gulf between them is [the Absurd](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Absurdism); a tragic compulsion to seek meaning where there is none.

The curse is obvious. The blessing, not so much.

</div>

{% include image.html width="30em" url="/assets/images/mad-fate/sisyphus.jpg" %}

<div markdown=1 style="display: inline-block">

I am Sisyphus.

I've spent countless lives pushing my boulder.

Never quite reaching the top of the mountain.

I know my curse.

But to let myself hope gives me the resolve to push at all.

What better way to spend eternity than chasing a dream that will never extinguish?

I gladly embrace my mad fate.

---

With each decision I bear the weight of an entire world.

I know they will take me nowhere.

Yet I rejoice in the freedom I have in the ways I can go nowhere.

In fact, I have a surplus of freedom.

If the world refuses to give me a purpose, perhaps I can craft one.

Which of my freedoms can I part with?

I will pick the ones I value least.

Did I choose them because they are immoral, or are they immoral because I've chosen them?

Regardless, my shadow is rejected.

I know good and evil.

---

I have three duties:

To discover these values.

To release myself from fraudulent values.

To use my will in alignment with my values.

---

All our hearts ticks with mechanical rythm.

Yet each one can defy this nature to exert its will.

Is that not the power of a god?

</div>

{% include image.html width="30em" url="/assets/images/mad-fate/atlas.jpg" %}
